---
title: "June 2018: For the love of Vue, Friendship and Goals"
description: "June left me with many realizations of trusting my guts and following my heart."
date: 2018-06-30T17:59:35+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["June"]
image: "https://images.pexels.com/photos/1068523/pexels-photo-1068523.jpeg?auto=compress&cs=tinysrgb&h=650&w=940"
---

Last month, I wrote a very short review mainly because I didn’t do much coding. The case is different this month. This month, I learned and unlearned and discovered what was best for me and stick to it with no matter what.
React Struggles

During the review of May, I wrote that one of the main goals for this month was to learn React, well that didn’t happen. What happened was that I fell in love with Vue, another JavaScript framework. I had already started learning Vue during my #100DaysOfCode challenge but because of the BootCamp, I decided to stop and focus on React instead, besides React is hugely popular and is what is often used by companies in my locality, so it wouldn’t hurt learning it.

However, things didn’t go as plan. It wasn’t clear at first but I thought maybe it’s just because I’m just starting out or maybe because of the material I’m using. so I switched to another material but the story remained the same. After trying countless materials, there wasn’t much difference even though I was able to pick up the basic concepts in theory but in the bigger picture, I couldn’t fathom exactly what was going on. This got me worried and I went on a spree of asking questions on forums, slack channels, developer friends and even on twitter, overall the replies were mostly the same. “Don’t give up, Be patient, It will take time but it will begin to make sense”. Truth be told, I would have given this same advice to anyone in my shoes but my love-hate relationship with React had already gone too far and at that moment I felt it was too late. Something else had crept up my mind. Vue.

When I started learning Vue, I didn’t go through all this stress (that doesn’t mean Vue was easier to learn), I was just able to understand it, the docs were magnificent and things just fell in place naturally for me. So I went into another spree to find people that had used both but prefer Vue and try to vindicate myself that I wasn’t alone. I came across some excellent materials on Medium that talked about it like this one and this one.

Everyone knows React, so what! I have been struggling to learn React but I think it is important for me to work with what I feel comfortable with and not what people think I should as Dave Geddes [excellent article](http://gedd.ski/post/when-tech-makes-you-feel-dumb/) suggested. After reading his article, I felt at peace and it has been amazing for me. I am happier and I don’t have to feel I’m not capable of learning something. Granted, you should stay on top of latest technologies but the point in the argument is doing something you are doing only because of everyone is making noise about it.

As at the time of this article, Vue has surpassed React as the most starred JavaScript framework on GitHub, this may not show true metrics in terms of usage as tweeted by the creator of Vue but it does mean one thing: That Vue is becoming super popular and overtime might overtake react. Hopefully, it will be used for Native Mobile Apps and VR also. Personally, for me, I think the fact that React was released before Vue is the reason most companies use it but what do I know ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I hope React fans don&#39;t take it too seriously - GitHub stars is just one of many metrics and yes React is still ahead in terms of usage. I&#39;m just glad there are so many devs loving their frameworks of choice, be it Vue or React. Build great stuff, make the world a better place.</p>&mdash; Evan You (@youyuxi) <a href="https://twitter.com/youyuxi/status/1007450116184248320?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 15, 2018</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>


I’m not the biggest fan of React and that’s just a personal thing. React is a great framework as proven by the number of companies using it today and if you prefer it, by all means, use it but don’t feel forced to use it because everyone is using it. Use whatever you feel comfortable with except, of course, you have to learn it for a project in which case, it’s totally different from the argument I’m presenting.

## #100DaysofCode

I started round 2 of the challenge but due to some reasons, I stopped after day 3. I felt that wasn’t what I needed at the time and it’s best for me to move on and not put pressure on myself.


## Friendship

I also learn the value of friendship. I have met amazing people at the BootCamp. Most days when all I do is complain about my struggle with React or how difficult things are, these guys have always listened and had my back

## Goals

Goal setting has got to be the most cliché word used on the Internet today but it has helped me tremendously. I have come to realize that it is better to come with your own plan and don’t make it complicated. Having plans help you to stay on track, articulate and take decisions faster. Plans help you visualize the roadmap leading to your destination.

Before switching over to Linux, I was using Evernote desktop on Windows and absolutely loved it but sadly there was no desktop version for Linux OS and the web version UI totally sucks in my opinion. So I had to come up with an alternative, I decided to use my code editor and write in markdown. So far, this has been efficient and even made me feel geekier.

## Whats’up July

- **More GitHub commits:** I want to maintain a streak throughout July. This means that I will push code or make a meaningful activity on GitHub.
  
- **Learn the Basics of Node:** I guess it’s finally time I start to learn Backend language. Node is an obvious choice as I’m already familiar with JavaScript.
  
- **Contribute to Open Source:** This is definitely scary even just by typing it but it’s high time I checked this off my goals for the year.
  
- **Build a minimum of two projects:** Having only built a simple to-do app with Vue, I’d like to move a bit further and do something advanced. And since I will be learning Node, maybe a simple to-do won’t hurt also.
  
- **Write four technical articles:** Pretty sure you are tired of seeing this because I keep listing it as a goal and never achieving it, well I am too, that’s why this is the last attempt I will be making, if I fail to achieve this, then this is the last time I will even mention it to myself. I hope to write one article per week. One article per week is realistic though, it’s not gonna be easy but I’m willing to give it my best shot.
  
- **Work on project with Chingu teammates:** I’m working with a remote team on the Chingu Voyage and so far,things has been moving smoothly, hopefully, I will have made meaningful contributions by the end of the month.

## Picks

- Peter Gleeson article about [Learning to code the hard way](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/learn-to-code-the-hard-way-65dece5b0005) is a funny story read that tells you how not to code in a funny way.
  
- Ho[w to escape tutorial purgatory as a new developer — or at any time in your career](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-to-escape-tutorial-purgatory-as-a-new-developer-or-at-any-time-in-your-career-e3a4b2384a40) is an excellent article written by Tony Mastrorio that talks about building projects to aid your learning and progress.
  
- Want to learn React? Per Harald Borgen has a [free course](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/want-to-learn-react-js-heres-my-free-course-which-teaches-it-through-building-a-chat-app-c86333e5b88c) which teaches it by building a chat app.

_**Cheers!**_