---
title: "May 2018: Getting comfortable being uncomfortable"
description: "Moving out of my comfort zone"
date: 2018-05-31T17:57:48+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["May"]
image: "https://images.pexels.com/photos/52608/pexels-photo-52608.jpeg?auto=compress&cs=tinysrgb&h=650&w=940"
---

The month of May has been a stressful one. Being in a BootCamp has its own struggle but overall it has been a wonderful experience.

## Coding Journey

- As a result of the BootCamp, I have had to learn new technologies such as Bash Scripting. This is something I have seen a few times but haven’t got around to learning it. It’s actually cool and very useful when you want to automate a task. I wrote about my first day at LearnFactory Bootcamp [here]({{< ref "/thoughts/first-day-at-learnfactory.md" >}}).
  
- I didn’t get to learn React, mostly because we were busy with other tasks. In the internship, we are moving in the conventional way from basic HTML and CSS and working our way through JavaScript. Although most of the things being are familiar to me, it didn’t hurt learning them again and improving more. 

- If you are wondering what my experience about the #100DaysOfCode was, I wrote about it [here]({{< ref "/technology/100-days-of-code-experience.md" >}}).
    
- I also got to ask my first ever Stackoverflow question. I was surprise to receive answers quickly despite the many bad things I have heard about the platform especially towards newbies asking their first question. I wrote about my experience [here]({{< ref "technology/first-stackoverflow-question.md" >}}) and also got feedback from others about their experience asking question on Stackoverflow for the first time in this [article](https://dev.to/peoray/i-asked-my-first-stackoverflow-question-1hj6)

## Project

- [Search-N-Gif](https://github.com/peoray/search-n-gif): I decided to use the [Giphy API](https://developers.giphy.com/docs/) and make a fun project where user types in a word and it returns funny gifs based on the word. The user can also search for trending gifs on the Internet at that moment.


## Whats’up June

- After taking a break, I will be doing a second #100DaysOfCode challenge.
  
- Also, I will devote most of my time to learning React. Hopefully, I’ll get to build basic projects with it.

_**Cheers!**_