---
title: "July 2018: Learning and Setting Priorities"
description: "Action express priorities"
date: 2018-12-21T18:00:34+01:00
draft: true
---

    Nobody’s life is ever all balanced. It’s a conscious decision to choose your priorities every day.

    - Elisabeth Hasselbeck

It’s been a roller-coaster month and I’m only glad it has ended. A lot happened this month: I learned new things and also learned some things just don’t matter.
Coding Journey

The most important thing that happened this month is the fact that I got to make my first Open Source contribution. This had been a long time goal of mine and I’m glad I got to achieve this.

Codebuddies is an online community that lives on Slack and also help each other by scheduling Hangouts to teach or explain concepts to fellows members. I have been an inactive member for a while before I decided to start contributing to conversations and asking questions too. That led to my first OSS contribution: I added additional text to the greetbot that welcomes new users to the slack channel. It’s easy to say I will definitely contribute more as it is satisfying as well as fulfilling.

I published one technical article this month on how to display your password in a form using JavaScript. This comes closely after the OSS contribution as my proudest moment this month. Yes I know, it wasn’t a mind-blowing article, I know people didn’t clap(who cares) but hey I finally did it. I know I said I was gonna try to write four articles over the course of this month but don’t let me kid you, writing is damn hard!. Moving forward, the goal is to publish one article per month, if I do more than that, then consider it a miracle.

I decided to learn Node and Express this month. Getting the right material was stressful as I had to choose between different materials but I ended up going for Colt Steele’s Web Developer BootCamp. I found Colt’s style to be comfortable with my style and easy to follow and understand. I had bought this course on April 16, 2017 (it was my first Udemy course and the only one I have completed from beginning to end). It is often among the most recommended course for newbies to get into. I finished the frontend part since last year but left the backend part because I wanted to focus on frontend a bit. I finally finished the whole course. Although, the course was created in 2015, don’t let it deceive you. It is one of the updated course you will find that covers full stack, although, the course uses ES5, all the code works and are applicable today. As materials get updated and syntax changes, Colt and his pair of Teaching Assistants stay on top of it all and ensures they provide the relevant materials to students to get over the hurdles. The knowledge I got from completing the YelpCamp project built in the course is exhilarating.

This month, I wanted to maintain a streak to push code to GitHub for 31 days straight but I didn’t achieve this and for good reasons too because it wasn’t worth it. Although most of the commits I pushed were code, some days if I didn’t work on anything worth pushing to GitHub, in other to maintain my streak, I find myself making silly and unnecessary changes just to ensure my streak continues. Overtime, I realized I was kinda faking it to impress people and just decided to flow with things and not force myself to make unnecessary changes just for the greens.

As for Chingu Voyage, unfortunately, it was the same old story, and as I stated in June’s article, I’m quitting. This won’t be part of any of my goals as nothing always comes out of this. It’s hard to work with people that are miles away from you. Overtime, life gets in the way and people slack off and the project gets abandoned. Funny thing is, no one ever says anything about it.

I have been trying to work through FCC on the side but that’s just having put too much on my plate. Yes, FCC is great but at this moment, it shouldn’t be what I want to do and I wonder if I will ever have time for that. Possibly, I might look at their projects but having to go through the track is tiring and feels like time wasting for me. I only do it because I feel like I should, rather I should focus on things that matter and what I really should be doing with my time should greatly benefit me more.

I know I said I don’t enjoy React but I tried React native and surprisingly I enjoyed it. It has always been my dream to develop mobile apps and with React Native, it just got easier. Although, I didn’t go too deep and while you should understand React, if you manage to know React a little like I do, then you will be able to find your way. Hopefully, in the future I will devote time to this and learn it properly.

I also went through Edabit and I enjoyed the experience. It wasn’t something I devoted time to but overall it was a nice experience. I even made to level 2.
Projects

As always, this is where I usually want to focus a bulk of my time. This month, I overdid myself and ended up with unfinished projects. This has led to an increase in incomplete projects I haven’t gotten around to finish yet. But overall, I was able to still complete few.

    To-do App: As with my tradition, the first project I always build when learning a new language or framework is a to-do app. After learning the basics of Node and Express, I built a simple to-do app.
    Itunes Search: Let’s you search for your favorite artist and see all the albums they have released till date and the number of tracks each of the album contain. The data was gotten from iTunes API. I used this project to practice how to make API calls from an Express app.
    I also started a Book-saving Vue app and my Portfolio, which I decided to build with Vue but over-complicated things with the layout design I choose, making responsiveness to be difficult. I haven’t completed both yet.

Goals for August

    Finish uncompleted projects: I will take time off to finish off most (or all) of my incomplete projects on my GitHub. At this moment, there are five incomplete projects on my GitHub repository. This will free my mind and give me motivation moving forward. It is easy to feel motivated to start a project and then abandon it later when you begin to encounter issues.
    Build a full stack application: I hope to build a full stack application that includes user login, authentication and other layers that makes up a complete application.
    Make more contributions to OSS: This one is very exciting for me. There are many other issues in CodeBuddies Community that are labeled for beginners that I want to try my hands on.

Picks

    Learning How to Learn: This course gives you easy access to the invaluable learning techniques used by experts in art, music, literature, math, science, sports, and many other disciplines. You will learn about the how the brain uses two very different learning modes and how it encapsulates (“chunks”) information. You will also cover illusions of learning, memory techniques, dealing with procrastination, and best practices shown by research to be most effective in helping you master tough subjects.

Congrats to France for winning the FIFA World Cup. Image Source

Cheers!